How can we now open this menu? Ionic makes this really simple
thankfully. You just go to the page or to the component where you want to open it,
so where you want to add that hamburger icon in the toolbar and there are other ways of opening it too
in case you don't want to open it through that hamburger but I'll show you the hamburger first and let's
say that would be the offers page here. There
I want to render this icon on the left, so I'll add my ion buttons
slot start wrapper here and in there, you can add an ion menu button.
This is a component Ionic ships with which you can drop in like this
and it will automatically take your default menu you have and open that.
Now in case you have multiple menus, one from the left and one from the right let's say, you can give
your menus here a menu ID and that could be any string you want, like m1 or anything you want and
then you can also connect this opening button to that ID.
So here on ion menu button, you can add a menu key and use that same ID to basically inform Ionic
which menu it should open with that button.
So here, let's now save that and wait for this app to reload and
let's go to offers and there, we now see that hamburger icon and if you tab it, that menu slides open
and it gets removed by sliding or by simply pressing the backdrop, you can also slide it open by the
way here from the left.
So that is all supported,
that is a nice native-like behavior as we would expect it
and you see, these are all the items we added, no lines in between them,
these are the icons I chose
and you can use that menu ID to select it or as I mentioned, if you only have one menu, then this will
be picked automatically
so you don't have to assign a menu ID then.
So if I remove the menu ID and I remove the menu attribute from the ion menu button, then it still works.
Now this is one way of opening the menu,
what would be another way? Another way would be to do it programmatically and I don't really need this
in this application but I want to show it to you.
So let's say on the discover page here, obviously I want to add that ion buttons thing here with slot
start and we could add the ion menu button and in reality, you would do that because why wouldn't you?
Now let's say we have an ion button here which says open and we want to add our own click listener
to do that programmatically and more realistic scenarios of course would be that you have some other
button somewhere on your page that when the user presses, it should simply open a side menu because maybe
you're showing some special settings for this page in your app menu, in your side menu which you want
to show when the user clicked config somewhere in your page.
But here the idea is the same, I'll add onOpenMenu, you can name this method whatever you want and you
just have to add it to your Typescript file then. In onOpenMenu, how can we now get access to our
menu? Well there is a special controller you can inject, the menu controller, it's of type menu controller
and you do import it from @ionic/angular. With the menu controller injected, this gives you access
to your menus, so you can now use the menu controller and there you can get for example an array
of all the menus it finds. You can close the current menu,
alternatively here you can also pass a menu ID if you have multiple menus, like m1 or if you call
it like this, it basically closes the menu it finds as your main menu and so on. You also have an open
method of course and an isOpen method to check whether it is open and you have the toggle method which
actually will open it if it's closed or close it if it's open. And you could have used open or toggle
here, it doesn't really matter, if I use toggle here, you see that on discover, here is the open button
I added and that indeed opens the menu through that menu controller and therefore programmatically.
Now it's not the solution I will use here,
so I'll comment this out so that you can still see this code here but it's not the solution I want to
use here, it doesn't make a lot of sense here but it's important to know how you could open that menu
from code if you needed that,
I will bring that menu button back though because I want to have that hamburger icon
and why would I write my own code if it works like this out of the box.
So let's make sure we can now also add links here and then switch pages.